# zo — tests.

> *A list of zo programs that should pass or fail.*

## about.

THiS ROOM iS ABOUT TESTiNG zo PROGRAMS. WE METiCULOUSLY FOCUS ON DETAiLS THAT MATTER.

ALL TESTS ARE SPLiT BY CONCEPT, PROGRAMS THAT USE THE `build` VS `run` COMMANDS GOES iNTO A SEPARATE FOLDER. WE ARE NOT ALREADY CONViNCE ON HOW WE ORGANIZED iT BUT FOR NOW iT'S FiNE; YOU CAN NAViGATE AND SEE ALL PROGRAMS. EACH CATEGORY CONTAiNS TWO FOLDERS, ONE FOR `programming`, THE SECOND FOR `templating` MODE.    

SOME OF THESE TESTS ARE BEiNG PORTED FROM:

- @SEE [`rust-prehistory/src/test`](https://github.com/graydon/rust-prehistory/tree/master/src/test) — by GRAYDON HOARE
- @SEE[`error-essage-catalog`](https://github.com/elm/error-message-catalog) — by EVAN CZAPLiCKi

THE GOAL iS TO PROVE zo'S COMPiLER CORRECTNESS BY PASSiNG THE SAME FOUNDATiONAL TESTS. WE FOLLOW OUR MASTERS.

## commands.

  ```sh
  zo build <FILENAME>
  ```

> *If you need more arguments, flags or whatever — just run `zo --help`.*

## dev.

  - `programming` MODE PROGRAMS GOES iNTO `/programming` folder.
  - `templating` MODE PROGRAMS GOES iNTO `/templating` folder.

iNSiDE BOTH FOLDERS:

  - TOP-LEVEL CONTAiNS PROGRAMS THAT PASSED — *`build` and `run` works perfectly.*
  - `fail` CONTAiNS PROGRAMS THAT FAiLED — *programs that must failed.*
  - `wip` UNFiNiSHED PROGRAMS — *needs to be refined.*

ALL PROGRAMS CAN BE TESTED MANUALLY WiTH BY OUR `zo-test-runner`. 

 ```sh
 just zo_test
 ```

iT BUiLDS ALL PROGRAMS, EACH OF THEM FOLLOW A SPECiFiC STRUCTURE:

  1. A HEADER — *title, command, resume of the concept, etc.*
  2. A CODE SNiPPET — *the part of code to explain a concept.*
  3. MORE EXPLANATiON — *provides more details and suggestion.*
  4. EXPECTED OUTPUT — *the source of truth of what should produce the program.*

THESE iNFORMATiON ARE UNDERSTANDABLE BY THE TEST RUNNER. iT WiLL VERiFY THAT'S THE RESULT GENERATED BY THE CODE SNiPPET MATCH THE EXPECTED OUTPUT.

> *This is a mandatory — without this structure, `zo-test-runner` is not capable by doing its job.*
